======Interview 1=======

INTERVIEW: EMMA

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 35
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: LEISURE  
Pain Points: GENERAL -  CAR PARKING AT TERMINAL ( TOO FAR AWAY)  GETTING THOUGH SECURITY (ESP LIQUIDS ETC)  QUEING TO GET OFF PLANE AFTER LANDING
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: 3-10 FLIGHTS A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 12 - 18 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: AS MUCH AS I CAN - CLOTHES, SHOES, SNACKS, TOILETRIES AND MAKEUP, CHANGE OF CLOTHES FOR ME AND KIDS, BOOK ,SWEETS, CHEWING GUM, PHONE, CHARGERS, CAMERA, MONEY 
Profession: PERSONAL TRAINER
Marital Status & Children: SINGLE
Hobbies: EATING OUT AND EXERCISING, READING LEARNING NEW THINGS
Nationality: BLACK BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   ,  YouTube   ,  Snapchat   , FB Messenger  

TRANSCRIPT

Hi, my name is Emma.

I live in London with my two children.

I'm a personal trainer, I retrained recently.

I'm British.

Hobbies?

Working out, going out to eat a lot, reading, learning new things.

Oh gosh, so the last time that I travelled...

Oh my carry-on, so what do I take in my carry-on?

I tend to take things as much as I can, so mainly toiletries, change of clothes for the kids and myself if the kids are coming with me, or just some sort of underwear and light things for myself, a book, sweets, chewing gum, obviously my phone, all my chargers, any cameras I'm taking, any electricals, money and all that sort of stuff.

As much as possible.

The last time, my whole experience when I travelled, I booked online through the British Airways website, I had some air miles, so that was quite easy to use.

Getting to the airport tends to be the trickiest thing for me in terms of where I'm going.

I went to Heathrow, Terminal 5.

I wanted to take my car.

Trying to find a good deal where to park my car is always tricky, like understanding how close it is.

It would be good if there was a map that showed you how close the place that you're parking was to the airport and how easy it was to get to.

Terminal 5 is quite easy, it's nice when you get there in terms of finding where you need to go, although I do find it a bit overwhelming when you go into the departure lounge and trying to find where the check-in desk is, or whether I need to do self-check-in as well.

I always get a bit frustrated around how many plastic bags I can carry with my liquids.

Some countries are more strict than others, and sometimes even in the UK they're more strict than others, and I just find that getting through security can always be a bit stressful.

Last time I think I was just trying my best to take some bits.

I think I might have had some liquids that were over, or I had too many and the bag didn't close, and I was trying to squeeze it in.

That's always a nightmare.

Flying was fine.

Flight, you know, checking this.

I really like Terminal 5 because of all the shops.

They've got the luxury shops and you can have something to eat.

Then I arrived at my destination in Europe, and that was absolutely fine, to be honest.

Getting off the plane is always a bit of a hassle because of everyone queuing and rushing to get off, and I just want to get off the plane and get to my destination.

So I'd say the biggest pain points are parking, security, and that includes the liquid restrictions, and getting off the plane.

So, yeah, in terms of feeling a bit claustrophobic and wanting to go off, and people are dragging things from over your head, and sometimes something drops on your head, and then you're rushing down to get your luggage to take out and get through customs.

I just find that bit is it's always been like that and nothing's changed.



======Interview 2=======

INTERVIEW: MAIA

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 28
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: FIRST CLASS
Reason for Travel: LEISURE  
Pain Points: SMOOTH SAILING NO REAL PAIN POINTS  - VERY HAPPY WITH UPGRADE ON RECENT FLIGHT.  ONLY DOWNSIDE IS A FEELING OF EVERYTHING BEING OUT OF YOUR CONTROL AND THINGS DON’T ALWAYS GO TO PLAN
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: 3-10 FLIGHTS A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 6-12 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: HEADPHONES, CHEWING GUM, SNACKS, EMPTY WATER BOTTLE, MAGAZINE, TOILETRIES, CHARGER, JUMPER, SOCKS ETC  PEN
Profession: FULL TIME NANNY
Marital Status & Children: COHABITING WITH A BABY
Hobbies: SPENDING TIME WITH MY BABY, WALKING AND WATCHING TV
Nationality: BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   ,  Snapchat   , TikTok  

TRANSCRIPT

Hi, my name is Maya, I'm 28.

I live in London with my fiancé and my son who's 10 months old and very lucky to be living opposite my mum who's also my best friend.

My hobbies are travelling, exploring new and different places.

If you don't find me anywhere I will most likely be hiding in a very cosy Starbucks in central London.

I love animals, especially dogs, food, cooking, photography, writing, shopping, spending time with my family and going to the theatre and cinema.

When it comes to my carry-on bag, I pack an empty bottle so I can fill it up with water once I'm on board because I do tend to get very thirsty.

I like to bring a few snacks, a charging cable for my phone, a jumper, a couple of pairs of socks, spare clean knickers and maybe a few pads, my headphones and a pen because you just never know.

In March of last year, just before Covid really kicked in, I managed to squeeze three different trips to Washington DC, Austin in Texas and Cape Town in South Africa.

So I'm going to talk about my trip to Austin.

I took my mum with me, we went for a long girly fun amazing weekend.

I was 16 weeks pregnant and my bump had just popped.

We booked our tickets online, we managed to find an amazing deal and we flew with British Airways.

My fiancé dropped us off that morning at Heathrow Terminal 5 and from there everything was just smooth sailing.

We checked in online the night before just to save us time at the airport and we just sent the bag through which was very easy and quick.

Before we headed to the gate, we did buy a few different food, snacks, drinks, what have you, to have at the terminal but also on the flight in case the options were limited.

Then we had a quick schmoot at the duty free, you know perfume and makeup and whatnot.

Then we headed to the gate.

To our surprise, we actually got upgraded for free to first class and I think it's because we're part of the One World Alliance partners loyalty or something scheme point system.

I reckon they probably saw I was pregnant and thought, "oh it's a bit of a long flight, let's treat her" which was amazing, so lovely to be pregnant for the first time and sit in first class, massive treat.

It was better than we could have ever expected, we literally got treated like queens the whole time.

So yeah, when it came to arriving into the US, we stood in the queue and of course at customs they ask you who you are, why you're there, so again all absolutely fine.

It was just amazing to be able to get upgraded to first class and as a bonus the crew were really really lovely and friendly and helpful.

The return leg back to the UK was just as amazing and positive, we were just obviously very sad to be coming back home.

The only thing I'd say is my pain points when it comes to travelling is that not everything always does go to plan like you'd hope, which is even more frustrating because it's totally out of your control.

======Interview 3=======
INTERVIEW: ABIGAIL

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 38
Nearest Town/City: BARNET
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY BUSINESS
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY AND BUSINESS
Reason for Travel: BUSINESS TRIP - HAS AN OFFICE IN SOFIA
Pain Points: COVID TESTING VERY EXPENSIVE          NO FOOD AVAILABLE ON SH FLIGHTS
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: 10 FLIGHTS A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 3 MONTHS AGO OR LESS
Carry On Bag Contents: LAPTOP, WATER BOTTLE, EARPHONES
Profession: ACCOUNTANT
Marital Status & Children: MARRIED NO KIDS
Hobbies: READING AND GARDENING
Nationality: BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   , Twitter   ,  YouTube   

TRANSCRIPT

Hello everyone, my name is Abigail, I'm 38 years old, currently live in Barnet, married, without children, and I used to travel probably four or five times a year before the pandemic, and most recently I had to travel again last month on behalf of work.

My carry-on items normally are a bottle of water, something to keep me hydrated, probably a notebook or something like that so I can make notes during my flight.

I normally take earphones so I can listen to some movies or I can listen to some music on the plane, and I normally take my laptop as well because I normally travel on behalf of business so I can write some notes and then send them when I get off the aeroplane.

I travelled last month to go to Sofia in Bulgaria for my work because I'm an accountant and I look after the finance department for my company and one of them has an office in Sofia, so I travelled there last month.

I was a bit cautious about doing so, I had to take a Covid test before booking anything.

I went online and booked my travel as normal.

I normally book online, I don't normally go in store to book my travel because I usually use the same air and hotels and they're recommended by the business.

So I booked my travel, no problems at all, it was just recommended on the website that I was obviously Covid free and I might have to quarantine on my arrival back to the UK, so that was fine, that was no problem, took my money as usual, no issues there.

When I arrived at the airport to take my travel I had to prove that I was Covid free so I had to provide data on my NHS app to show that I was clear.

I had to have had a test within the last 48 hours and if I wasn't clear I had to take a test at the airport which I had to pay an excessive amount for, I think it was around £120 and I would get my results literally within the hour but I didn't need to do that because I'd already come prepared.

So I took my test, I had to provide that I was clear, able to fly, which is what I did and then I was booked on.

I was told that I had to wear a mask, which I was doing in the airport anyway, I had to wear a mask on the aeroplane and I had to social distance.

So on the aeroplane I might have someone sitting next to me but normally I'd have to social distance and I had to follow all the markings that was based throughout the airport and to my gate.

So I did that when I was waiting for my flight, I sat away from people, I sanitised, I put my mask on and I sat away from people and used the 2 metre or 1 metre markings throughout the airport.

Got on the flight as usual, no problems, wore my mask throughout the flight.

There was no food or drink allowed on the flight unless you had bought your own but they weren't serving any meals but my flight was a short flight anyway, it was only 3 hours.

Then landing at the other end, again had to follow the social distance markings throughout the airport, had to wear my mask up until check-in, security and I had to again show that I was Covid free.

I had to show on the NHS app or on some sort of scanned document from the NHS to show that I didn't have Covid.

So I landed and there was no problems, I was let through.

Then coming back about 4 or 5 days later from my business trip, I had to do the same thing, I had to show that I was Covid free, I had to take another test which is what I did at the airport because I couldn't do it at my home address because I was flying on behalf of business, I was in Sofia so I took a Covid test, proved that I was Covid free within the 48 hours, got on my flight again, social distance, had my mask on, followed all the necessary precautions.

Then landing in the UK, had to provide my documents again to show I was Covid free and I had to quarantine for 10 days.

So that means I had to stay at home, I work at home anyway but I had to stay at home and show that I was Covid free.

That was my opinions today, I hope that helped.

Travel has definitely changed recently due to the Covid precautions but I believe it's safer and it's better for everyone.

Thank you for listening, thank you, bye.



======Interview 4=======

INTERVIEW: KATHY 

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 58
Nearest Town/City: ROTHERHAM
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: PREMIUIM ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: RESCHEDULED FLIGHT DUE TO COVID (LEISURE)
Pain Points: TIRING & STRESSFUL (EG SECURITY OF POSSESSIONS)                                       CONNECTING FLIGHTS   - CROSSING LONDON IN RUSH HOUR (RECHECKING IN BAGGAGE) REFRESHMENTS ARE EXPENSIVE
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: ONE OR TWO A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 12-18 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: IPAD AND CHARGER, CHANGE OF CLOTHES, TOILETRIES, MONEY, BANK CARDS, KEYS FOR CAR AND APARTMENT, PASSPORT, PAPERWORK
Profession: IT SYSTEM ADMIN
Marital Status & Children: DIVORCED OLDER KIDS
Hobbies: TRAVELLING, READING, INTERNATIONAL FOOTBALL, DAYS OUT WITH FRIENDS
Nationality: BRITISH
Notes: In a wheelchair and is very active, doesn’t currently use apps to aid fitness but intends to. He has Strava but hasn’t used it yet - he is classed as a Maintainer
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   ,  Snapchat   

TRANSCRIPT

Hi, my name is Kathy, I am 58 years old, I work as an IT Systems Administrator and I'm divorced.

I have two adult children and live in Rotherham, South Yorkshire.

My hobbies and interests are travelling, reading and socialising with friends.

I also like international football and keep on top of current affairs and the news.

My carry-on bag items include a mobile phone, chargers, iPad, power bank, keys, bank cards, money, passport, tickets, insurance documents, toiletries and a change of clothes.

The last time I travelled by plane was in September/October 2020.

I had to move flights from June 2020 because of the pandemic.

I went from Manchester, UK to Calgary, Alberta, Canada via Amsterdam.

I took a taxi to the airport, had to wear a mask for 36 hours.

Finding the gate at Manchester was okay but tricky in Amsterdam.

I had to run to catch my connecting flight and was stopped three times for Covid temperature checks, phone to be filled in and pass through Covid sniffer dogs.

The Manchester/Amsterdam flight was packed, the Amsterdam to Calgary flight was socially distanced and it was the same for the return leg.

You only got one meal on board and no choice.

There was no drinks trolley.

At Calgary I had two hours being interrogated by immigration before being let in, more forms, temperature checks and I had to download a tracker app for the Canadian government to monitor my quarantine.

The return leg was easier, no immigration, just a passenger locator form to complete.

What was good was my timing.

I managed to travel just before the UK went into national lockdown.

What was bad was two weeks quarantine before I left the UK, two weeks quarantine in Canada and then two weeks quarantine again on my return.

This did affect my mental health.

The pain points of air travel in my opinion, number one I find it very tiring and stressful whereas I used to enjoy it.

It's not as relaxing as it used to be.

You have to keep an eye on your belongings going through security to make sure there's no pickpocketers for example.

Number two, having to have a connecting flight and trying to avoid Heathrow or London so you don't have to cross London in the rush hour.

It's tricky because I try to have the same airline so that my luggage goes on at the start and comes off at the end and I haven't got to mess about rechecking luggage in.

But then you've the problem if your flight's delayed in case you miss the connection.

And number three, refreshments are expensive.

It was eight and a half euros for a latte in Amsterdam Starbucks which is extortionate.

I hope that helps.

Thank you.

Bye.



======Interview 5=======

INTERVIEW: CHARLIE

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 38
Nearest Town/City: MILTON KEYNES
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: LEISURE
Pain Points: DIFFERING RESTRICTIONS ON CARRY ON BAGS ACROSS AIRLINES               PASSENGERS UNPREPARED FOR PASSING THROUGH SECURITY                                                          POOR LEGROOM IN ECONOMY
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: ONE OR TWO A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 6-12 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: ALL MY BELONGINGS AS I NEVER CHECK IN BAGS
Profession: LEARNING AND ENGAGMENT TRAINER
Marital Status & Children: SINGLE NO KIDS
Hobbies: DRIVING STEAM TRAINS AND DOING MY VAPING YOUTUBE CHANNEL
Nationality: BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   

TRANSCRIPT

Hi, my name's Charlie.

I'm 38 years old and I'm a Learning Engagement Specialist for a premium menswear brand.

I'm single, no children, living in Buckinghamshire and in my spare time I volunteer driving steam engines and I also run a YouTube channel where I do vape reviews.

When I travel by air it's most common for me to take all of my luggage as carry-on.

It's very rare that I check in any bags.

My last travel experience in September 2020 was different in a number of ways.

Even booking was different since I had to keep checking the historical flights to make sure that my flights would go ahead and they hadn't been cancelled a lot.

I left it as late as I dared before the prices would go up to be sure that I could travel and to make sure the travel restrictions would allow me to do so.

Navigating the airport in the UK was easy for me since I've been there plenty of times before and I know my way around but it was still busy and a lot of people not observing social distancing.

What was critically important for the trip was that I had completed my passenger locator form correctly for the German government.

This had to be changed however at the last minute because one of my Airbnb bookings fell through and I had to find some new accommodation at less than a week's notice so I had to change my form.

The flight itself kind of passed without incident and the airport at which I landed was very quiet, very easy to get around, very well laid out.

On the return journey I had made sure that my passenger locator form was also completed correctly and the flight crew even reminded us about it but no one at the airport collected it and nor did I have to log anything with track and trace.

I could have easily not bothered and not bothered self-isolating when I came back.

The airport from which I left, which was Schiphol, was very well organised and maintained good social distancing but returning to the UK it was very evident how poor our organisation was by comparison.

Thinking about the biggest pain points for air travel, for me the first one is the differing restrictions on carry-on bags.

Some airlines massively restrict how big the bag can be so you have to pack for the lowest common denominator unless you want to pay a whole lot extra just to be able to take a slightly bigger carry-on bag.

When you're travelling on the same size aircraft that's pointless, that's just pure profiteering.

The second thing is about the poor preparedness of people passing through security.

We all know we have to go through security, we all know the routing, the rules are quite simple and easy to follow yet there's always more than one person, there's usually plenty of people holding the line up because they haven't prepared, they haven't sorted their liquids out etc.

And the third thing that really bugs me is about legroom.

Now you can't change the design of the aircraft but I don't see why I should pay over the odds just to get a comfortable accommodation for being 6 foot 1 which is not abnormally tall at all.

I don't think economy class should mean that you're just going to be uncomfortably crammed in for the time that you're going to be in the air.

So that's my thoughts.




======Interview 6=======

INTERVIEW: DYLAN

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 18
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: FAMILY SUMMER HOLIDAY
Pain Points: 1 WAY SYSTEM AT AIRPORT(COVID)       TENSE TIME IN PLANE SNEEZING AND COUGHING (COVID)                                                   NO OPPORTUNITY TO GET FOOD AT AIRPORT GENERAL - LEGROOM - ALLERGIC TO PERFUME AT DUTY FREE - NEVER ENOUGH SEATING AT AIRPORT  
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: ONE OR TWO A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 6-12 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: BOOKS, LAPTOP
Profession: STUDENT
Marital Status & Children: SINGLE NO KIDS
Hobbies: PHYSICS, GYM, GAMING
Nationality: GERMAN/IRISH/BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   , Twitter   ,  YouTube   ,  Snapchat   , Pinterest   , FB Messenger  , TikTok  , LinkedIn

TRANSCRIPT

Hi, my name is Dylan, I'm 18 years old, student, single, no children, born in London.

Hobbies include physics, going to the gym, playing video games, and in my carry-on bag I usually have a couple of books, mostly fiction, sometimes non-fiction, if I'm planning to study and maybe a laptop as well.

The last time I travelled by plane was last year in July, so the first time people could start travelling again.

I don't personally book the flights, my parents normally do because we travel as a family.

I remember them saying it was quite cheap though at the time.

Getting to the airport was completely normal, we travelled by car as a family and so there's nothing changed there, but you sort of start noticing the differences once you're at the airport where there's a one-way system, you have to wear a mask, and there was a lot of hand sanitiser, social distancing was also expected.

But to be completely honest this didn't come as any sort of shock, this is what we expect to see from a place like an airport where there's a lot of people interacting with each other and a lot of people there at the same time.

And so it was completely standard.

Finding the gate took maybe slightly longer but really it was unnoticeable, the one-way system may have made it a bit more difficult to find, but we weren't late or anything like that.

Flying was completely fine, wearing a mask for an hour is no problem.

I can imagine though if it was a longer flight for a couple of hours, six, seven, it may have begun to get uncomfortable, but that wasn't the experience I had.

And once we arrived at our destination it was completely fine, we went to Germany which was doing really well with the pandemic at the time, and so once we got there it was hardly noticeable.

There was nothing really particularly good or bad about this experience, I remember the only thing being it was quite tense, a lot of people didn't feel comfortable to sneeze, cough, really make themselves noticeable at all because they didn't want to be suspected of having COVID or anything like that.

I also remember that we tried to avoid sitting near people and waiting, we didn't get any opportunity to eat, get food like we normally do, but apart from that it was a perfectly normal experience.

My three biggest pain points when travelling by air is leg room, I'm a tall guy, I find it quite common that I don't have enough room for my legs, nor do they normally press against the person sitting in front of me.

The duty free, I'm quite sensitive to the duty free, I've got quite sensitive eyes and skin to strong chemicals, so I get an allergy like reaction when walking through lots of perfumes and make-ups, and really it's not that big of a problem but it's sometimes annoying, especially since it seems that in most duty frees that you have to walk through those sections first.

And the third and last problem is that there's sometimes not enough seating in the waiting area for a flight, my family and I are normally quite early, we like to get food and breakfast there when we travel, and so in some establishments it doesn't seem like there's enough seating there but that's only a small concern.

But overall I thought the flying actually went really well, considering there was a good pandemic and a lot of us thought we wouldn't be able to fly for an entire year.




======Interview 7=======

INTERVIEW: LENE

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 52
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY 
Reason for Travel: LEISURE   VISIT TO FAMILY IN DENMARK
Pain Points: (COVID) LOTS OF INSTRUCTIONS AND PREPARATIONS, CHECK-IN SLOWER THAN NORMAL - NO SOCIAL DISTANCING ON PLANE   - STEWARDESSES NOT WEARING MASKS - GENERAL DISORGANISATION IN FACE OF COVID
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: ONE OR TWO A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 6-12 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: PURSE, PASSPORT AND FLIGHT PAPERS PHONE TISSUES
Profession: ADMINISTRATOR
Marital Status & Children: MARRIED OLDER KIDS
Hobbies: BOUNCE EXERCISE GYM & DINING OUT
Nationality: DANISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   ,  YouTube   , FB Messenger  

TRANSCRIPT

So, good morning.

My name is Lena.

I am 52 years old.

I'm lucky to be in a full-time occupation as Operations Manager.

I am happily married with obviously a husband and two teenage boys.

A little bit about myself, my hobbies.

I've just picked up a new hobby which I love which is bounce.

Bouncing on trampolines to good music which is great.

I go to the gym, love dining out, that sort of thing.

A little bit about what I carry on the flight is I just take a handbag.

In my handbag I have my mobile phone, I have my purse, I have tissues and I have my travel documents with me and that is really all I take with me on the aircraft.

Keep it as simple as possible, everything else is checked in.

Now, with regards to the travel that I did last year, I booked on BA.com.

Very straightforward, flight to Denmark, return easy enough and there was of course instructions of masks, wearing etc.

Warning of this has to be done at the airport, on the aircraft, that sort of thing.

Also, that was repeated on numerous emails that were sent to me before the actual flight.

Arriving at the airport, my husband drove me to Terminal 5 and check-in was different of course.

We were all wearing masks, all taking a distance as much as possible.

A lot of people struggling wearing the mask at that point.

It was quite early on where we had to start wearing masks and you could see people struggling, didn't like wearing them but they did, they did.

Everybody persevered.

The check-in was very slow, much slower than normal but I guess that's just the nature of...

The communication was harder, you can't hear each other.

Wearing the mask makes a big difference but of course it's for protection so I understand.

The airport itself again, very quiet which was nice.

Wearing a mask all the time which was fine.

Queuing at Tills which was again fine, just a bit of distance.

Then obviously getting on board.

Everybody was just running on board basically and no distance.

You get on the aircraft, you sit down and you sit elbow to elbow with the next person.

Not ideal.

In fact, I asked to be moved because the lady next to me said she'd just come out of an operation from the hospital that made me feel very uncomfortable.

Then we landed and got our bags and so on.

The three points that I would like to make is obviously now I hope they've got it better but the worst one for me was actually getting on board.

Everybody's literally elbow to elbow and the whole time we've had to make this distance so that seemed very wrong to me.

Some of the stewardesses were not wearing masks which I found really strange.

The whole feeling felt a bit like we were all getting to learn how to work with the mask on and learning when to do the distance and clearly sometimes not.

It was a bit disorganised, I'm not going to lie.

I thought the whole experience, I was not really looking forward to flying back knowing again that the idea of being told you must distance and then you literally sit with your legs and elbows touching the next person pretty much, that was not good.

Thank you.




======Interview 8=======

INTERVIEW: JAY

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 50
Nearest Town/City: WEST MIDLANDS
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY BUSINESS
Class Usually Travel: BUSINESS
Reason for Travel: BUSINESS  
Pain Points: (COVID) OVERCROWDING , LACK OF PRECAUTIONS                                     (GENERAL) SECURITY TAKES TOO LONG - PEOPLE UNPREPARED. PEOPLEBOARDING THROUGH WRONG ENTRANCES CAUSING HOLD UPS ON PLANE - PEOPLE TRYING TO FIT OVERSIZE LUGGAE IN OVERHEAD STORAGE
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: 3-10 FLIGHTS A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 12-18 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: CAMERA, IPAD, LAPTOP, 2 MOBILE PHONES, MEDICATION, SWEETS, TOILETARY BAG
Profession: BUSINESS CONSULTANT
Marital Status & Children: MARRIED WITH KIDS
Hobbies: FILIMING, FLYING DRONES, TRAVEL PHOTOGRAPHY
Nationality: INDIAN BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   ,  YouTube   , FB Messenger  

TRANSCRIPT

Hi, I'm Jay, 50 years old and I run my own business consultancy.

I live with my wife and two boys in a lovely part of the West Midlands and my hobbies are photography and drone filming both here in the UK and abroad.

When I travel my carry-on luggage consists of a MacBook, an iPad, spare iPhone, a camera, medication, overnight clothes, sweets and toiletry bags.

The last time I traveled was for work back in March 2020 when I did a return trip to Brunei via a stopover in Dubai and Malaysia.

Booking is straightforward for me as I've got an agent that books my flights whether they're business or leisure.

And as I fly business or first most of the time I normally have a car provided for me by the airline and that reduces the hassle of parking and carrying my luggage to the check-in desks as the driver does this for me.

As I travel frequently I know where the gates are for all my flights at the airports I travel to and flying in my opinion is always fine.

I gain to the class of the travel and the opportunity to go through immigration quickly as I don't have to queue up and my drivers waiting for me at the other end.

So what was good about this particular trip was precautions taken at the Southeast Asian airports for COVID-19 such as temperature checks, passenger locator forms and ongoing information about how to manage the infection such as wearing masks and hand sanitizing.

However coming into the UK with such crowded planes with passengers from all over the world the UK had no precautions in place even though the numbers were rising everywhere else.

And this I found to be both irresponsible and ignorant to the safety of all passengers.

Now I forget that there are others that are not frequent flyers and however this should not rule out common sense and my three pain points are to do with other travelers such as number one when going through security the signs of signs and simple videos clearly state what you should take out of your bags for the trays such as belts coats laptops electricals and toiletries which must be in one clear bag of a certain size and they also decide to do this when it's at the last minute on the tray.

You can hear them asking do I need to remove my belt do I need to take out my laptop do I need to take off my jacket do I do I do it and can't.

Watching people on the flight looking for their seats is my second pain point.

Looking at their boarding pass which clearly states maybe 56A and they're looking at the seats around me which may be numbers one to five as an example and think they're standing there and holding up the rest of the passengers thinking that's where their seats are going to be.

This annoys the flight attendants who calmly explain that their seats are all the way at the back.

And then my final pain point is passengers that try to put their oversized carry-on luggage into the overhead lockers and it's like watching a real-time version of Tetris.

You can see that it won't fit but they try over and over again until they find an empty compartment.

So for me I love travel but there are some annoyances.

Thank you.




======Interview 9=======

INTERVIEW: GEORGE

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 60
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: BOTH
Class Usually Travel: BUSINESS
Reason for Travel: VISIT SICK RELATIVE
Pain Points: OVER-OFFICIOUS STAFF/PEOPLE & WASTED TIME WAITING FOR FLIGHT DETAILS ETC
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: MORE THAN 10 FLIGHTS A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 12-18 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: TECH EQUIPMENT - INCLUDING LASER GLASSES, CHANGE OF CLOTHES, PASSPORT, WATER PURIFYING SPACE FOOD, PHONES
Profession: SECRUITY FOR BUSINESS EXECUTIVES GOING TO  DANGEROUS COUNTRIES
Marital Status & Children: MARRIED WITH KIDS
Hobbies: KITE SURFING
Nationality: BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   ,  YouTube   , FB Messenger  

TRANSCRIPT

Good morning, I'm George.

I'm married with a 16 year old and 12 year old boy.

I'm 48, slightly aged by the kids and the job.

My hobbies are kite surfing for the adrenaline, gardening for losing my mind and in terms of carry-on, for me it's basically tech gear and survival gear connected to my job, so water purifying tablets, 24-hour ration pack and so on, but otherwise I'll get most of my clothing and so on at my destination.

In terms of the flight that I took last October, this was to Auckland, New Zealand.

My brother has stage 4 cancer and it was essential that I got out there, so obviously in these conditions things were slightly more complex.

First of all I had to get permission or a pass from the New Zealand government, which took a long time and then I had to book my quarantine hotel and then get my flight sorted.

Ordinarily I'd go through British Airways, but the only feasible option for this trip was Singapore Airlines, which I'd never used before and that was very efficient, so combination of tracking them down via Expedia and Sky Scanner.

Once, oh and the hotel basically was given to me by the New Zealand government so I didn't have to look at that.

In terms of the getting to the airport, that was a simple train ride on the Tube.

There's no point in driving there, M25 is too difficult, so that that was easy and then at the airport I am a frequent flyer, I know my way around so I knew where the gates are and where to look for the signage and so on.

Obviously there was more administration than usual and certainly getting through check-in was was longer than usual because of more documentation and so on and so forth and I think the staff were more cautious and more officious.

The airport itself was virtually empty and a lot of the shops were shut for obvious reasons, so I went into the lounge and got some refreshments and read a book.

Plane left on time and I flew business class and I was looked after very well.

Food was good, had plenty of comfortable seats and that went smoothly.

Destination, obviously tedious being stuck in a hotel for two weeks, but then it was all worth it in the end to see my brother.

After that, the return trip I had to do a bit of a dogleg but surprisingly no administration at Heathrow, so sailed through that without any checks.

My bugbears on flying, over-officious staff and other people and perhaps the wasted time when you're waiting and waiting for flight details and so on.

The good things, I guess I can get a lot of work done.

Usually the food is good and things go generally pretty smoothly apart from the odd diversion or late plane.





======Interview 10=======

INTERVIEW: KAREN

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 52
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: BUSINESS
Reason for Travel: FAMILY CHRISTMAS TRIP TO DUBAI
Pain Points: TREMINALS CAN BE CONFUSING TO NAVIGATE                                                CHECKING IN GENERALLY                                                                        PCR TEST STRESSFUL
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: MORE THAN 10 FLIGHTS A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 6-12 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: LAPTOP, PHONE, ANY VALUABLES AND SPARE PAIR OF KNICKERS
Profession: BRITISH AIRWAYS CUSTOMER SERVICES
Marital Status & Children: MARRIED WITH KIDS
Hobbies: WALKING, GOING TO THE GYM, EATING OUT
Nationality: BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   ,  Snapchat   , FB Messenger  

TRANSCRIPT

Hello, my name is Karen.

I'm 52.

I work for British Airways at Terminal 5 at Heathrow.

I have two children.

They are 20 and 18.

We live in North London.

My hobbies include going to the gym, socialising.

When I take my carry-on bag, usually my carry-on bag is excess clothes that I might be using for the day when I arrive.

When we last travelled, we went to Dubai, so it was cold here in London.

In my carry-on bag would be the clothes for when I get there because it was hot, so we wanted to change.

Also some sandals, books usually in there.

I put my iPad in there, the passports, any jewellery that I don't particularly want to put in my suitcase.

Not that I have anything that's worth anything, but anyway, some food maybe, snacks for the aircraft, whatever.

The last time we travelled was at Christmas.

We were travelling on the 19th of December in the afternoon.

I think that evening Boris decided that there was no more travelling.

As staff, I book a standby ticket, so it does mean that we will only get on the flight if there is room for us to get on the flight.

Fortunately that day we went at lunchtime and there was room on the flight.

All four of us flew business class to Dubai, which is amazing on British Airways.

The flight was delayed by a couple of hours, so I think it was delayed by three hours.

So actually British Airways gave us vouchers at the airport because of the wait so we could buy some food.

I think the value was about £5 each, so we went to get some food from Pret a Manger and then we had quite a bit of a wait because the flight had been delayed.

Fortunately when I fly I know that I don't have to be at the airport two or three hours before because I know for me as staff an hour is sufficient, an hour and fifteen minutes, an hour and a half.

So we had a bit of a wait because of the delay.

Finding the gate, obviously I know Terminal 5 very well, so I knew where everything is.

I can imagine if you don't know Terminal 5 it is quite confusing, especially as I think that Dubai flight went from B or C gates, which you have to get a train over to, but obviously I know the airport so it wasn't confusing.

When we arrived at Dubai that also is a little bit confusing and we do tend to get a bit lost there, but you just tend to follow everybody else.

I know in previous times we have been there we have got a bit lost at the airport, but when we arrived it was fine.

We were supposed to, we had a PCR test done to enter Dubai, but actually BA we were not checked when we checked in for our PCR test.

We thought we would be checked when we arrived in Dubai, but the process was they just said have you got your PCR test and we said yes and that was it.

So they never checked them, which was a bit weird.

I think the biggest pain point is checking in and that's about it.

Unfortunately I don't get a lot of time to say anything.

The good about the experience was that we flew business both there and back, we managed to get on our flights.

The bad was unfortunately that the flight was delayed and also the stress of getting the PCR test and then realising that nobody was interested in them anyway.

Okay, I hope that helps.

Thank you.




======Interview 11=======

INTERVIEW: AMAR

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 21
Nearest Town/City: LEEDS
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: LEISURE
Pain Points: (COVID )- LOTS OF STORES CLOSED AT AIRPORT                                                    (GENERAL )- NORMALLY FLYING IS A LOT BUSIER,STRESSFUL,  ATTENDANTS HAVE LESS TIME FOR YOU 
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: ONE OR TWO A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 6-12 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: PHONE, EARPHONES, IPAD AND MEAL DEAL, SWEETS, CHEWING GUM
Profession: STUDENT
Marital Status & Children: SINGLE
Hobbies: SPORTS INCLUDING CRICKET AND FOOTBALL,  POOL, F1, TRAVEL, CONCERTS, FESTIVALS
Nationality: INDIAN BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   , Twitter   ,  YouTube   ,  Snapchat   , FB Messenger  , TikTok  , LinkedIn

TRANSCRIPT

Hi my name's Amar, I'm 21, I'm a British Indian and I'm a student and I do mechanical engineering, not married, zero children and I'm from Leeds, Butgo Union, Newcastle.

So my hobbies are playing football, like football, cricket and then like, I wouldn't say what else, I'd probably say like just more sports, I watch a bit of F1, I like a bit of pool tennis, more sports really if I'm honest.

I like traveling as well, going to concerts like music festivals, that kind of stuff.

My carry-on bag normally has my earphones, airpods, my iPad, phone, meal deal, like something to eat and then maybe, I don't know, some sweets or something like that, chewing gum, that's about it.

And yeah, so like I think the last time I went traveling was in August last year and I'd say the experience like traveling was a lot easier, like there was no one really there at the airport, the only bad thing was like most of the shops and that were closed, like pretty much all of them were closed, like going and coming back.

I went to Frankfurt in Germany but apart from that, like boarding the flight was a lot quicker, just the airport like it was like less stressful just because there were less people in there, so that was a lot better.

Didn't need no tests or anything, going or coming, they didn't require tests at that point, well not to the destination I was going, coming back, other destinations, like in Egypt they needed them, but to come back to England at that time we didn't need them.

You had to wear a mask like the whole journey throughout the airport, on the airplane, it wasn't too bad and you had to sit on like, I think they put us on like the window seats on each side, you weren't allowed to sit next to the aisles.

I'd say like the biggest points traveling normally, I'd be like how busy the airports and planes are and everything's a lot more stressful.

I thought like the flight attendants that were probably a lot nicer now, even like luggage and stuff like that, I just don't think they really cared because there weren't as many people on the plane, so even if you're a bit over, they weren't really that bothered.

I think another thing, another pain to do, like regarding, like everyone was like very stressed in the airport and that, it wasn't really like that, but then I'd say because the shops weren't open, you probably didn't have to be there at that point, but you didn't know at the time, so like you were just probably sat in the airport, but like the bars and that were open, so that was alright.

I'd say like, if only, like probably the experience is probably better, but I think now it's changed, it might be different with the tests and stuff that you have to do, so it makes it, might make it a bit more expensive, but like back in August, I'd definitely say it was better to travel.

Well if you could, apart from the only bad thing was wearing the masks.




======Interview 12=======

INTERVIEW: DANIEL

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 25
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: LEISURE
Pain Points: FEAR OF FLYING, LACK OF LEGROOM,CARRY ON BAG RESTRICTIONS/CHARGES, DIFFICULTIES GETTING TO AIRPORT,HOW LONG YOU SPEND THERE, BAGGAGE CHECKING DISORDERLY, FOOD ON FLIGHT CHEAP AND LOW QUALITY, AT AIRPORT VERY EXPENSIVE
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: 3-10 FLIGHTS A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 6-12 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: LAPTOP, BOOK, FOOD AND DRINK AND MEDICATION
Profession: TUTOR
Marital Status & Children: SINGLE
Hobbies: COOKING, READING, RUNNING
Nationality: BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   , Twitter   , LinkedIn

TRANSCRIPT

Hi, my name is Daniel.

I am 25 and I am British.

I work as a tutor and I am single.

No children and based in London.

Typically my hobbies are I like to cook, I like to travel, I like to read, I like to do sport, I like to listen to music, all those kind of things.

Normally in my carry-on bag I have a book or something to entertain me.

Sometimes I take my laptop or tablet or iPod, some form of technology.

Normally also there is a newspaper that I buy at the airport.

Sometimes I am pseudo-fed or I like some medicine to help me with flying because I am not the greatest flyer.

And also depending on destination I will take a hat, sunglasses, sun cream, a little one because obviously you are not allowed much and some like deodorant, some spray, stuff like that.

So the last time I travelled by plane was in February 2020.

I went to Amsterdam.

So booking the trip I was looking at lots of different flight providers.

Obviously London to Amsterdam is quite near and because of that there is quite a range of providers that travel between London and Amsterdam.

So a lot of the time I was doing it based on price but also based on the time of the flight because I did not want a flight time too early but also not too late.

So it is kind of like in the middle.

So booking the trip was okay because I managed to book via Skyscanner which is very kind of comprehensive.

To go to the airport I actually took the National Express coach from Golders Green in London and that took me to Stansted.

The flight was very smooth actually.

It was with the EasyJet and it was no delays, very quick boarding, everything kind of worked out well.

Everything went swimmingly.

And then when I arrived at the destination again everything worked quite swimmingly.

I took a suitcase as well so I just waited for the suitcase to come.

And yeah everything was fairly quick and well organised.

I guess the good thing was the fact that flights weren't delayed, it was a quick service, the air stewardesses and the staff at the airport were very warm and welcoming.

I question whether that would be potentially because there weren't many people travelling because it was just before Covid but there was still like an air of Covid, like Covid was in the air.

So I feel that maybe because they had quite a lot of time, because not too many customers, I feel maybe they gave me quite a lot of attention.

I guess the only bad thing was I'm not a lover of planes and also the leg room and also the size of the carry on.

It has to be like a certain size.

If you go over there they literally make you pay.

There was someone in the queue in front of me that actually had to empty all their stuff out.

Three biggest pain points for me regarding air travel.

Number one would be how long you've got to get to the airport.

So how many hours you've got to actually be there.

It kind of equates to a whole day.

Second thing sometimes is the idea of the suitcase, like baggage control and it's kind of all in their hands because I've been on flights where often I'm waiting at the baggage for it to come and my whole suitcase is kind of upside down because someone's been inside it potentially to check security.

Obviously I understand that but I would just like them to leave the case as they found it because it's very very upsetting.

And I guess the third biggest pain point for me would be the food on the airplane.

I find the food very much quite cheap, a bit disgusting and often I have to buy food at the airport which again the price is inflated.

So I would love the food to be a bit more healthy and nutritious.

That's basically what I would say.




======Interview 13=======

INTERVIEW: OSCAR

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 18
Nearest Town/City: ESSEX
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: PREMIUIM ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: HOLIDAY TO GREECE
Pain Points: COVID INSURANCE DIFFICULT TO OBTAIN, HOLIDAYS MORE EXPENSIVE, NEED MORE PREPARATION TO GET THOUGH AIRPORT, ALSO ARRIVAL AT COUNTRY (MORE ANXIOUS AND LESS ENJOYABLE)
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: 3-10 FLIGHTS A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 3-6 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: PHONE, I-PAD HEADPHONES AND JUMPER
Profession: TRAINING TO BE A BARBER
Marital Status & Children: SINGLE
Hobbies: GOING TO THE GYM AND FOOTBALL
Nationality: BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   , Twitter   ,  YouTube   ,  Snapchat   , Pinterest   , FB Messenger  , TikTok  , LinkedIn

TRANSCRIPT

Hello, my name is Oscar.

I'm 18 years old.

I'm British.

My occupation is a training barber I'm single.

I don't have any children.

I live in Essex.

I enjoy going to the gym and watching the football my carry-on items would be Headphones an iPad a jumper and my phone Last time I traveled Was to Greece I found the booking experience was a lot more tricky because you have to also look if you're covered in terms of Covid and obviously what will happen if you're out there and you can't come home what kind of protection you have Get into the airport I felt was a lot more intimidating because you have to have a lot more preparation in terms of what you need because you need to take your tests or you need to Obviously be double-jabbed and things like that and there's a lot more preparation going into it Flying I found actually a lot nicer because of social distancing you get more space dedicated to you I know on the flights I was on in the row three There was only two people in the row, which was perfect and arriving at your destination as well You can't just think about where you're flying from you got to think about the laws of where you're going to as well So there's a lot more preparation needed which isn't nice Something that was very good about the whole situation as I've already said is the space on the plane That's really good a bad experience is the preparation I feel like there's way too much preparation needed and it takes the fun out of the like the build up to your holiday Obviously if you're going on holiday, not only I'm really excited But however, I feel like you get very anxious and whether you've got everything right you need and also there's a lot of tests around The time so also anxiously waiting for the results of them the three biggest pain points regarding air travel in general Throughout this time obviously air travel and holidays have gone up a lot you know to a point where you can't afford certain holidays and That is a massive pain problem for me There's a lot of holidays have gone up in price and obviously if you can't afford the holidays you originally planned it's not ideal another thing that isn't Ideal is when you are on the planes you don't get the brochures and things like that Which is something that keeps me entertained for the throughout the journey It's I wouldn't say it's a massive problem But obviously when you're on a flight here for five hours or so you you kind of use everything you've got in front of you It's an insane you another problem a pain point in regards to travel and Would probably be The whole whole experience at the airport now is nice and enjoyable you have to obviously be masked and There's a lot more preparation going in stuff which makes it a lot a lot of a lot more of a stressful experience than it was previously before Covid Thank you

======Interview 14=======
INTERVIEW: HASSAAN

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 28
Nearest Town/City: MANCHESTER
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: LAHORE TO DOHA TO MANCHESTER
Pain Points: GENERALLY - WAITING IN QUEUES & ESP BAGGAGE RECLAIM AS WELL AS DAMAGE TO BAGGAGE                  COVID - HAVING TO GET TESTS
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: 3-10 FLIGHTS A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 6-12 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: PEN, LAPTOP, MUSIC, HEADPHONES, HOODIE
Profession: POST GRADUATE
Marital Status & Children: SINGLE
Hobbies: WORKING TOWARDS BREAKING A WORLD RECORD AND HAVING SKYDIVING LESSONS
Nationality: PAKISTANI
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   ,  YouTube   , Pinterest   , FB Messenger  

TRANSCRIPT

Hi my name is Hassan, I'm 28, Pakistani, I'm a student, I'm single, I have no children, I'm based in Manchester UK.

Hobbies include something to do with aerodynamics, pushing my boundaries, stuff like that.

Carrying bag items, I always carry a pen with me because we have to fill forms.

Airplugs, laptop will always be there, maybe a hoodie but not necessarily every time.

Moving on to the questions, the last time I travelled was from Lahore to Doha and Doha to Manchester.

It was a connecting flight, I was able to get a discount on the booking because of Covid, not many people were travelling.

So that was something I was happy to get.

At the same time, booking was done easily through my phone, I used the app.

It was done in not more than 20 minutes, straightforward process.

I used a car, a personal car to go to the airport, my friend drove it back.

Flying was fine, safe flight and I reached safely to Doha and then from Doha to Manchester was done quite comfortably.

What I hated about this process was, of course, we were made to do our Covid PCR test 48 hours before the actual flight.

So this is not something easy for people when they know they have to travel and they have to go get their test done and then go pick it up and get a slip one day or two days before flight.

It's not something everybody would find comfortable.

I didn't find it comfortable.

At the same time, it made it totally meaningless that nobody asked me for my PCR test.

Everybody was more interested at Lahore airport, they were more interested in scrutinizing me and finding out if my face matched the picture on my passport.

The flight from Lahore to Doha, I booked a seat, aisle seat in the middle of the plane.

But as I'm a single male, I was thrown at the back, which was something definitely and it was not comfortable.

But of course, this is something I can't argue, this is something that happens.

Usually the front seats are given to families, single females and single males are thrown at the back.

The good thing was, yes, less people, everybody was made to sit one seat apart.

It was comfortable, four hours flight, nice meal, friendly crew, everybody was wearing their hazmat suits, fully face covered.

We were given face shield, a mask to travel.

One thing I didn't like was we were given one face shield at the start of the flight and few of the people including me thought we can just throw it out and not carry it for the second flight.

But we were actually expected to keep the face shield for the whole of journey for both flights.

So this is something we should have been informed earlier.

Also, for my next flight from Doha to Manchester, I booked an aisle seat.

But unfortunately, I was put in the middle row, middle seat and there was no empty seats and the plane was full.

I had to wear a mask, face shield, sit there in Qatar's heat while the plane was on the ground.

So I did feel a little bit claustrophobic with so many people over there.

So I requested the cabin crew, they moved me to this seat, which was usually, usually you pay for it.

It's next to the emergency exit.

Since it was empty, they were more than happy to move me there.

And of course, it was more comfortable than what I was given.

The three biggest pain points regarding air travel for me are waiting queues and now COVID test.

We need to get COVID test, but I hope if we get vaccines, we can travel without that.

I hate to wait for my luggage.

And of course, it's even sadder to look at the condition of your luggage, the scratches and the destruction done to it.




======Interview 15=======

INTERVIEW: LAURA

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 42
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: BOTH
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: 2 FLIGHTS BUSINESS/LEISURE
Pain Points: TOO MANY REGULATIONS & RULES, TOO STRESSFUL, BOOKING SHOULD BE EASIER
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: MORE THAN 10 FLIGHTS A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 3-6 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: TABLET, PHONE, BOOKS
Profession: DIRECTOR
Marital Status & Children: DIVORCED
Hobbies: THEATRE, READING, DRINKS, RESTAURANTS
Nationality: ITALIAN/BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   , Twitter   , Pinterest   , FB Messenger  , LinkedIn

TRANSCRIPT

Good morning, my name is Laura.

I'm originally from Italy but I recently became a British citizen.

I'm 42 years old and I'm a general manager for a conference and event organiser and I do mainly conferences and trade shows in Africa.

So that means that travelling plays an important part in my life both for work-related reasons as well as for pleasure and leisure.

I'm divorced, I don't have any kids and I live in North London.

In terms of hobbies and interests I do quite a lot of aerial activities like aerial hoop and so on but I go a lot to the theatre, reading, going out with friends, drinks and restaurants with friends, things like that.

In terms of carry-on bags, items, what I normally tend to take with me, it all depends on the airline I'm travelling with and it depends as well on the length of the trip, so if it's a short haul or a long haul.

Let's say I tend to have overall at least two bags, a carry-on and a small bag.

In the small bag I tend to have all my essentials, whether they are for instance my phone, my passport or things like my wallet.

In the carry-on bag it depends, normally I tend to have maybe a change of outfit, some essentials like the PC, the iPad, the chargers, the liquid, maybe some snacks, some food, definitely water and maybe a book or things that, or something if I'm going for work, maybe even something that I need to use or some documents and things like that.

Again, it all depends on the reason of the travel.

Recently, in the last 18 months, I travelled twice, so I did two trips which is quite unusual for me because normally I tend to travel quite more often.

However, I did two trips to Italy, one was back in July to September last year and the latest one was this year between December last year and back in January.

I'm going to talk about the latest trips.

Normally, when I do shorter trips like that one within Europe, I tend to book with airlines that are more on a budget like EasyJet, Ryanair and so on.

However, for this one specifically, because of the pandemic, I went through a travel agent.

Number one, because the price was cheaper and secondly, because I was a little bit more certain that if the travel got cancelled, I would have had a backup plan either to go or to come back.

Unlike, for example, the cheapest airlines, the budget airlines, because those ones normally don't have a backup plan unless they will offer you a voucher and so on.

The reason why I was going was just to go away effectively, not just to get the refund back.

So the experience, let's say, on the booking was fairly easy because obviously I had someone that was helping me out and that was kind of assisting me with changing the flights and so on.

However, it was just particularly stressful, especially on the way back because regulations were changing and normally I don't think that that is affecting me.

What are the three biggest pain points regarding travel in general?

I think generally it's all the regulations that you need to follow because you want to do it for pleasure and something that you want to do if you are going out.

So you don't really want to have as many regulations as there are at the moment.

And then at the same time, the booking should be a little bit easier, although it's not that complicated.

It's just because of the certainty of what's happening and what will happen.

I would like to have more minutes, but I guess I'm running out of time.




======Interview 16=======

INTERVIEW: LIA

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 33
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: MOSTLY LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: LEISURE
Pain Points: (COVID) - CHECK -IN TIMES VERY LONG, PAPERWOK IN ITALY WAS NEEDED IN ITALIAN, REFUSED BOARDING
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: ONE OR TWO A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 1 MONTH AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: I-PODS, PHONE, BOTTLE OF WATER, BOOK, PASSPORT, TRAVEL DOCUMENTS
Profession: POLE FITNESS INSTRUCTOR
Marital Status & Children: SINGLE
Hobbies: POLE DANCING, DRAWING, PAINTING, RESTORING OLD DOLL HOUSES,PLAYING MUSIC AND THE PIANO 
Nationality: BRITISH/SWISS
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   ,  YouTube   , Pinterest   , FB Messenger  , LinkedIn

TRANSCRIPT

Hi my name is Lia, I'm 33 years old, I am a pole fitness instructor and also a studio owner of Pole Academy London in Southgate.

I am half Swiss and half English, I am not married, I don't have any children, I live in London, North London, hi Barnet, and my hobbies include pole fitness, renovating dolls houses, socialising, listening to music, playing piano.

What do I have in my carry-on bag?

I always have my iPods with me, my phones, I have my, always a bottle of water, always got to keep hydrated, and my Carmex because my lips always get dry.

Apart from that, in regards to the last time that I travelled, I went to Italy and it was a real pain in the arse because of Covid, so there was a lot of, there was a lot of rules and regulations that we had to follow in regards to having our antigen test before we flew, so we went to Stansted the day before to get our tests done so that we could just get on the plane the next day, and all that was fine, it was really easy, however when we got to check-in just before our flight, we got there two and a half hours beforehand, which is the standard procedure for any flight, but where everybody was obviously getting their tests done on the morning, it meant that the check-in time were severely delayed, so we were in the check-in queue for two hours and we weren't anywhere near the desk, so we were actually pulled out of the queue, we were told to just check in straightaway via a different check-in desk, and then we had to run to our gate, so there was literally no time to sit and have a coffee or just relax, it was literally straight on the plane and as soon as we were all on the plane, it literally just went, I think that was the quickest that I have ever been rushed through, so it was very very quick, I wouldn't say it was necessarily bad because who wants to be hanging around at an airport longer than they need to, so that wasn't necessarily a negative, but it also wasn't really a positive because again who likes to rush when you're on your holidays, but apart from that the booking, you know, booking online, all that was fairly straightforward, booking yourself in for the antigen tests, that was absolutely fine, in regards to, yes so the outbound was fine, but coming back was a real pain because we went to a very rural part of Italy and the paperwork had to be written in English and had to be printed, so it couldn't be handwritten, now where we are in rural Italy, there's a lot of people that don't speak English and certainly don't write in English, so we went to get on our flight and the flight was actually, we weren't allowed on it because our paperwork was incorrect, they had actually handwritten it even though our tests were negative and so they wouldn't actually allow us on the plane, so we had to go back to our place in Italy and then we had to come back a few days later, rebook our flights and then obviously travel home from there, once I got on my plane, on my flight two days later when I rebooked there was only eight people on my flight which was great, so that was, that was pretty much it, so it was a pain obviously doing the tests and having to quarantine and coming back, but aside from that the travel was great and it was lovely only having eight people on my flight.

Thanks.




======Interview 17=======

INTERVIEW: PAUL

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 62
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: LEISURE  
Pain Points: GENERAL - QUEING & CHECKING-IN BAGGAGE, COSTS & ALLOWANCES, TIRED UNCOMFORTABLE AND UNKEPT AIRPORTS
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: 3-10 FLIGHTS A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 1 MONTH AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: MINIMAL, LAPTOP, PHONE & CHARGER, FEW CLOTHES
Profession: GLOBAL PROJECT MANAGER FOR VODAPHONE
Marital Status & Children: COHABITING WITH OLDER CHILDREN
Hobbies: FISHING AND DIY, TRAVEL, MUSIC, COOKING 
Nationality: BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   , Twitter   ,  YouTube   

TRANSCRIPT

Hi, my name is Paul, I'm 62 years old, I'm British, my profession is International Telecoms Manager.

I'm divorced, two children and live in Hertfordshire.

My interests are music, cooking, fishing and DIY and possibly following my choice of football and rugby clubs.

Baggage to take on flights, generally I wouldn't put much in my on-board luggage, it would be just my computer, my phone, my phone charger and perhaps just a few bits of clothing.

My last trip by plane was this year, I actually left on the 6th of June, travelled to Italy.

At that time, Italy was considered an amber-listed country by the government.

My experience for the whole trip, well, booking wasn't really too much of an issue, I managed to book online with Ryanair.

I suppose the cost was somewhat more expensive than I originally thought, as is normal with Ryanair, I think it was a £20 ticket worked out to be about £70 after booking cases and such and seats.

It was somewhat different to the normal, as I think most people are aware now, we had to abide by certain criteria to be able to fly.

First of all, we had to have a reason to fly to an amber-listed country.

We also had to complete a passenger locator form, which is an online form to say where we live, where we're going to, etc, etc, where we'll be staying.

We also had to complete a pre-flight COVID test, that was somewhat problematic, I think, because initially we were not aware of what type of test we needed to take, whether it was a PCR or lateral flow or an antigen, etc.

We did look into it in a lot more detail and it was quite stressful, but we decided to go eventually to the airport where they had a test facility, and we did an antigen test the day before.

So we travelled to Stance airport twice, once to do a PCR and then once we got the result of that, back the following day to fly out to Italy.

I suppose the flight itself was not too much of an issue, that was fine.

Arriving in Italy was quite weird, we had to have a photograph taken in arrivals.

We had a good time there, but on the way back, obviously, we had to do antigen tests again, and we had to do PCR tests again.

We completed the antigen test and the documentation was incorrect, which was very frustrating.

We were actually turned away from our flight, so we had to re-book a new flight.

Other than that, my main pinch points for travelling, I suppose, queuing, checking baggage, cost allowances and tedious and uncomfortable airport departures.

OK, thanks, that's four minutes, bye!




======Interview 18=======

INTERVIEW: MINDY

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 43
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: LEISURE (TRAVELLED FOR HOME VISIT TO USA)
Pain Points: COVID TESTING VERY EXPENSIVE     QUARANTINE  IN UK        GENERAL - LIKE FLYING BUT NOT HANGING AROUND AT AIRPORTS -ESP IF YOU NEED MOBIITY ASSISTANCE AS THEY KEEP YOU WAITING 
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: ONE OR TWO A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 3-6 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: BOOK, CONTACT LENS SOLUTION, GLASSES, SNACK, EMPTY BOTTLE OF WATER, WALLET 
Profession: PA AND PROJECT MANAGER
Marital Status & Children: MARRIED
Hobbies: TOURISM, COOKING, HOME DECOUR
Nationality: WHITE OTHER
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   ,  YouTube   

TRANSCRIPT

Hi, my name is Mindy.

I'm 43 years old.

I am Italian-American, so my nationality comes under "white other" in the UK.

I am a PA and project manager for a large national disability charity.

I am married with no children.

I live in northeast London.

My hobbies are exploring London, exploring the UK, gardening, cooking, home decor.

What is in my carry-on when I travel is a book, my contact solution, small one, my eyeglasses, a snack, an empty bottle of water that I fill up when I go through, and otherwise just my normal wallet and that kind of thing, just the usual kind of stuff that would be in a handbag.

In terms of my experience, I traveled November of 2020, the day before the second lockdown in the UK.

It was very different then, actually.

I hope I'm remembering correctly, but I'm pretty sure that the UK wasn't imposing any restrictions at that point, although they were encouraging people not to travel.

But the testing that I had to do was for the place I was going, which was Connecticut, which is on the east coast of the United States.

It's the state that I'm from.

And they required a PCR test to be taken within three days of arriving in the state so that you don't have to quarantine, assuming it's negative.

I'm pretty sure that is the only test I had to do.

So that was not anything to do with the UK.

That was just my arrival location.

So I took that test and I put it in one of the priority mailboxes the day before I left, and I got my results in the middle of the night, the first night I arrived.

So I was essentially quarantining until I got my results from that, which were negative.

So that was great.

My entire experience going to the airport was just normal.

Driving to the airport at the gate, it was totally empty.

There was hardly anybody there.

Flying, there was nobody in my row.

There was nobody in my area.

There was, I think, five of us in the whole entire coach, which was crazy, but true.

And arriving, I can't even remember, but I don't think there was any problem.

Nobody looked at my anything.

Nobody looked at anything.

Yeah, so that was my main experience.

My biggest three pain points were the test was, I think, 123 pounds that I had to take.

So that was quite painful, but it's more painful now because now there's more tests.

But at the time, it felt quite painful.

And I never heard anything about it.

I had to send it in to the Connecticut Department of Health, but nobody ever was in touch with me.

So also at the time when I returned, I had to quarantine for 14 days.

That has been long gone.

Now it's been 10 and now it's going to be zero if you're double vaccinated, which I am.

So the 14 days was tough in my house.

And then thirdly, that my brother and sister-in-law felt quite anxious about me coming and weren't happy to see me for, I think, my first four days, and then only let me see them and their children as long as I was wearing a mask.

I hope that gives you enough answers.

Thanks very much.




======Interview 19=======

INTERVIEW: NAOMI

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 65
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: LEISURE (HOLIDAY)
Pain Points: COVID - HUSBAND CAUGHT COVID HAD TO SAY 2 MONTHS ON MADEIRA - HUGE DELAYS - RUSH PANIC STRESS
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: ONE OR TWO A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 3-6 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: TINY HANDBAG WITH EPIPEN, MONEY ETC  AND RICKSACK WITH IPAD, BOOK, MAGAZINES, SANCKS, BOTTLE OF WATER
Profession: RETIRED TEACHER
Marital Status & Children: MARRIED
Hobbies: TRAVEL, EATING OUT, MEETING PEOPLE, GEOCACHING
Nationality: BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   ,  YouTube   

TRANSCRIPT

Hello there, I'm Naomi.

I'm 37, British, retired teacher, married, no children, I live in North London and my main hobbies are travel, which is a bit of a problem at present.

I also like eating out and meeting new people and geocaching, if you've even heard of that, which is great fun.

When I travel on holiday I normally take a handbag, which is absolutely tiny, and a little rucksack.

In my handbag I have my EpiPen in case I'm stung by a wasp, and money and passports and so on.

In my rucksack I will have my iPad and something to read, like a magazine because I like rubbish magazines on aeroplanes, and a snack, and once I've gone through customs I get myself a bottle of water, and maybe a sandwich in case the aeroplane doesn't have anything, and I'm not quite sure.

I'm here to talk to you today about my last trip on an aeroplane, which was a experience.

We went out to Madeira when it was legal in December on a three week holiday and we caught Covid there, so my husband ended up in hospital for a week, I only spent one night in hospital and then got the Covid hotel.

The next two months were spent trying to get a flight back to England, as by then Brexit has happened and British passport holders were unable to transit most European countries.

My travel insurance kept telling me that they had booked flights for me and when I kept saying "no, go and find out more" they came back to me and said "oh, we're terribly sorry, the flight you're supposed to be going on tomorrow, British people can't go on it".

So when you're asking me to talk about the booking of the trip, it was a massive experience.

I spent two or three hours every morning on the internet, I was looking at all the European airlines that flew from Madeira to Europe where I could then transit to the UK, then looking at the government regulations in all those countries and discovering I wasn't legally allowed to fly.

Eventually we managed to go from Madeira to the Canaries and from the Canaries we were in Gran Canaria.

We had a flight back to the UK.

Because my husband by then was not at all well, we had assistance.

That consisted of mostly sitting around at the airport hoping that they hadn't forgotten you and when we did finally get onto the tarmac to go to the aeroplane, lovely young man drove the mini, whatever it was, took us out to the aeroplane, got something over the tannoy, realised he hadn't gone through the final check-in desk, took us back and we finally got back to the plane with only a few minutes to go.

So the worst thing about the experience was the rush, the panic, the uncertainty.

The positive aspect of it was absolutely fabulous staff.

We flew easyJet to Luton, they could not have been nicer, but the stupidity was that although the flight only had 30 people on it, most of us were sitting in the front rows next to complete strangers and the young man sitting with us did not volunteer to move to the back to sit somewhere on his own.

Normally we love air travel, we don't like airports, we don't like the hanging around and we really don't like the fact that when you have airport assistance you have to sit and wait a long time being dumped as if you are a suitcase.

I hope that was helpful, lovely to chat to you, take care.




======Interview 20=======

INTERVIEW: JONATHAN

SURVEY RESPONSE:

Age: 61
Nearest Town/City: LONDON
Travel for Business or Leisure: LEISURE
Class Usually Travel: ECONOMY
Reason for Travel: HOLIDAY TO PORTUGAL
Pain Points: (COVID) -  AIRPORTS DON’T UNDERSTAND THE RULES,  TESTING IS COMLICATED, LOT OF BEARUACRACY  & PAPERWORK                                                                              (GENERAL) - LUGGAGE SIZES AND CHARGES UNCLEAR, WOULD BE MUCH BETTER IF THERE COULD BE SIMPLE ALL INCLUSIVE COSTS , GETTING TO THE GATE ON TIME , WORRY ABOUT MISSING THE FLIGHT, ALSO GETTING TO THE AIRPORT ON TIME CAN BE STRESSFUL BECAUSE OF POOR ROADS & TRAFFIC
Travel Frequency Before Pandemic: MORE THAN 10 FLIGHTS A YEAR
Last Flight Taken: 18 MONTHS AGO
Carry On Bag Contents: LAPTOP, IPAD, MAGAZINES AND BOOKS
Profession: RETIRED SURVEYOR
Marital Status & Children: MARRIED
Hobbies: EXERCISE, GYM, TRAVELLLING, DIY, STAMP AND COIN COLLECTIONS
Nationality: BRITISH
Notes: nan
Social Media Platforms Used:  Whatsapp   , Instagram   ,  YouTube   

TRANSCRIPT

Hi Gemma, my name's Jonathan, I'm 61 and I'm British.

I'm a surveyor by profession but I'm retired.

I'm married to Beverly, I have a daughter called Gemma and Beverly has two girls called Katie and Jane.

We live in Totteridge, North London.

Hobbies and interests, well I've got many.

I like exercise, I've just finished two walks, the gym, theatre, cinema, travelling in particular, being with family.

So I collect coin stamps, I've got many interests.

Obviously things are a bit difficult in these Covid times and I've been asked what do I have in my carry-on bag.

Well it might be a laptop or an iPad, it would be my power leads, I may have some books, some puzzles, magazines, things like that.

Now I've got to answer in the video details of last time I'm travelling by plane.

So I can tell you a lot about that.

I was flying to Portugal and as you know they keep changing the rules so when you checked in, oh I had checked in prior but it's like a sort of a second check-in because you couldn't just put your bags on the plane.

They of course didn't know the rules particularly well because they had just changed.

But when you book your trip, I often book it online.

Some of these sites I find it very hard to work out what you're paying for because luggage is in addition and have you got the right size bags and have you got both the carry-on bags and the bags in the hold.

That's a bit of a nuisance, it's a shame you just can't book a price that includes everything but it's not like that.

Getting to the airport we often take a taxi though sometimes we stay at the airport overnight if it's an early flight.

Finding the gate where you've got to make sure you know the gate number and what time the flight is and you've got to be there on time because if they close it you might not get on the aeroplane.

So I like to leave plenty of time, you know two hours plus for a more of a local flight and international to you know a long distance international three hours plus.

What was good and bad?

Well I find now you've got these extra rules and regulations you've got to know them in advance, you've got to have the tests, you have the right tests, you might need tests whilst you're out there, you might need to fill in a flight locator form before you come back and then have a test two days later.

So there's more expense, time, effort and energy in knowing the correct rules.

So it does affect the flights but I mean when you're bored you can forget about Covid to a degree which is good.

One of my biggest pain points regarding air travel in general, well I think the way they cost flights it'd be much easier if it was one price as I just mentioned this point anyway and also you're now checked every minute, you're checked by someone on your papers.

There's too many checks, I wonder if they could somehow simplify that.

So it's just you've asked me to describe that well basically they ask you for the same papers every few minutes of your journey throughout the airport and I just find that a pain because it slows it down, it means you're gonna leave earlier to get to the airport, you've got to have the papers ready, you've got to find them and so on.

So that's a pain but I love travelling, there's a whole world out there not just the other side of the world but more local in England and in Europe.

I mean recently because of Covid my wife and I have been travelling around England and we've seen some beautiful places if you've got the weather and you know we've got some beautiful places in Wales, Scotland, England and so on, Ireland.

One of the biggest pain points is obviously the traffic, the poor roads, the hotels, really a lot of them do need some major investment and they are charging a great deal.

We just stayed at a hotel in the New Forest, well it was in Leamington on the fringe of the New Forest, so we're charging £417 per day for the two of us, Ben breakfast which I thought was a rip-off but I negotiated a deal.

And I've got lots to say, I could spend hours on this, I know a lot about travel, I've thought writing a blog but it's not the right time to publish it.

So I'd love to help you even further, you can email me, text me or however or phone me, Gemma Hawkins has got all my details.

I'd like to thank Gemma for putting me forward and I hope this has helped.

Thank you very much indeed.

